[PyCity Analysis

The PyCity School analysis encompasses 15 total schools comprising of district and charter, and 39,170 total students. Within the analysis we covered budget, average math and reading scores, and passing rates. We are seeing if there are correlations between topics result in the success or failure of a student’s overall performance. Below is a breakdown of how the analysis was conducted.

School Summary

Category is broken down by each school. Per student budget was calculated by the school’s total budget and divided by total students. Math and reading scores were the students scores total average for each topic. Percent passing is calculated by math and reading scores with the value greater than 70, and total count of passing students divided by the total students multiplied by 100 to result in the total percentage result. The overall passing percentage was the combined math and reading passing scores to result in a student passing both topics.

Highest-Performing Schools by % Overall Passing and Bottom Performing Schools by % Overall Passing

The top five highest performing schools were all Charter schools. Total students’ range was lower than the bottom five schools, range was lowest to highest at 962-2283 total students. The per student budget was lower compared to the bottom performing schools, range was  582−
 638. Average math and reading scores were similar through all five schools, average scores stayed in the 80’s range, the passing percentage results are in the 90’s which causes the overall passing percentage to remain in the 90’s range.

The bottom five performing schools were all District schools. Total students’ range was higher than the highest five schools, range was lowest to highest at 2917-4761 total students. The per student budget was higher than the highest performing schools, range was  637−
 655. Average math and reading scores were similar through all five schools, average scores were in the 70’s for math, and 80’s for reading. The passing percentage was lower than the average scores in math but were like the reading average. Overall passing score was impacted by the math and reading percentage rates inconsistencies and resulted in passing percent to be in the 50’s range.

Scores by School Size

The 8 charter school sizes had 2 schools in small, 5 medium, and 1 large. Where all 7 district schools only fall into the large school size category. Small and medium size schools had a less than 1 percent difference in average math scores, average reading scores, percent passing math, percent passing reading, and overall passing categories. Large schools had varying ranges through each category compared to the small and medium schools.

Conclusion

There is a difference in student performance in charter schools compared to district schools. The higher amount in budget per student in higher performing schools compared to the budget per student in bottom performing schools did not result in higher performance. The bottom performing schools had a higher budget per student compared to the higher performing schools, a further analysis of what the budget is spent on would give a better comparative analysis with per student budgets and school performance.

The number of total students directly correlated to the performance of students. The lower population had higher averages and passing percentages, compared to the higher population that resulted in lower averages and passing percentages. In summary charter schools all performed at a higher passing rate than district schools. The population of charter schools even in the large school size was still lower than the lowest population in a district school. The analysis showed that there is a difference in performance based on school type and school size. The school budget and per student budget did not show that the higher budget per student results in higher performance in students, a further analysis of budget and allocation would be necessary to see if budget results in positive performance.

*Schools with lower populations performance in averages and passing rates were higher than schools with higher populations. *Schools with lower spending ranges had higher overall passing rates than schools with the highest spending ranges. *Math score averages stayed consistently in the same average ranges of 70-79 and 80-89 through each grade. Reading score averages were consistent throughout all schools with the average ranges in the 80’s. Variances were minimal in each grade. *Small and medium schools performed better overall compared to large schools by a 30 percent difference.]